# Documentation

These documentation pages are generated by a set of tools:

- [Doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl): For extracting documentation from C++ code. This documentation ends up in
  an XML file.
- [Breathe](https://www.breathe-doc.org): For integrating the Doxygen output stored in the XML file with
  documentation generated by Sphinx.
- [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org): For extracting documentation from Python code.
- [Jupyter Book](https://jupyterbook.org/en/stable/intro.html): For creating the final documentation.

The process is managed by the CMake logic in `document/documentation/CMakeLists.txt`. Most of the narrative
content is stored in Markdown files in the `document/documentation` directory and its subdirectories.
Documentation related to source code is stored in the files containing the source code (API documentation) and
in `doc` subdirectories scattered in the source tree rooted at `source`. The idea is to put the documentation
as close to the source it documents as possible.

The `CMakeLists.txt` file copies all files needed for Jupyter Book to generate the documentation pages, to the
build directory. When needed targets and other files will be made up to date first.

The target for building the documentation is called `documentation`, so this is how you can build the
documentation locally:

```bash
cmake --build . --target documentation
```

While updating the documentation it may be useful to serve the documentation using an http server and have the
documentation rebuild whenever needed. For that there is the `environment/script/serve_documentation.py`
script:

```bash
# Replace lue_source and lue_build by the directories containing the LUE source and build files
serve_documentation.py lue_source lue_build
```

The `serve_documentation.py` script is not perfect. Don't hesitate to improve it if you see an opportunity. As
an alternative, you can also regenerate the documentation "by hand" regularly, and use this command to serve
the result:

```bash
# Replace lue_build by the directory containing the LUE build files
python3 -m http.server -d lue_build/document/documentation/_build/html
```

Depending on the changes made, the generate documentation pages may not look right. This happens especially
when the table of contents is updated. In that case, the first thing to try is to remove the
`document/documentation` directory in the build directory, reconfiguring the project (`cmake .`), and then
rebuilding the documentation (`cmake --build . --target documentation`).

## Reference pages

The [reference section](#doc-reference) is an important part of the LUE documentation. It contains the
[operation pages](#doc-reference-operation), each describing a single LUE framework operation.

### Operation page

An operation page describes, possible multiple overloads of, a single LUE operation. Each page contains the
same set of sections:

- [Signature](#operation-reference-page-signature)
- [Description](#operation-reference-page-description)
- [No-data handling](#operation-reference-page-no-data-handling)
- [Example](#operation-reference-page-example)
- [See also](#operation-reference-page-see-also)

#### Sections

(operation-reference-page-signature)=

##### Signature

A signature for each overload of the operation, in a language agnostic way.

(operation-reference-page-description)=

##### Description

The description of the operation, in a language agnostic way. If needed the description should highlight
differences between overloads.

(operation-reference-page-no-data-handling)=

##### No-data handling

A description of how no-data values are handled by the operation. After reading this section, the user of the
operation must understand how the operation deals with no-data values in the arguments, and under what
circumstances no-data is generated and written to the result.

(operation-reference-page-example)=

##### Example

One or more language-specific examples of calling and operation. Per example, an implementation must be
provided for all supported programming languages.

(operation-reference-page-see-also)=

##### See also

Zero or more internal or external links to pages with more information related to the operation.

#### Add new page

TODO
